This video I'm going to show you the process for signing your app to get it ready for putting it on
the Google Play Android App Store.
Please note two things.
Firstly you will need to be a paid member of the Google Play developer console in order to get your
app on the Google Play store and that cost $25 a year.
And secondly the instructions that I'm about to show you do update quite regularly.
So please consider this a general guide and you might have to do a little bit of googling to get everything
working in your particular set up.
Having said that will cover all of the main principles and the process once you know what's going on
is not too complicated.
So I'm going to be following along with the phone gap build guide which you can get by searching for
something like phone gap build Android signing.
That's what we want to do we want to sign our apps to use for Android.
And that first result there is what I want.
So you should be on a page that looks like this.
And the main thing that we want to do here is generate a private key which essentially proves ownership
of the app to us and as a prerequisite for putting the app on Google Play.
So step one that is you can see download and install Java.
So you may well have Java installed.
I don't at the moment so I'm going to agree and start the download.
It's exactly the same process by the way on Windows.
And then I'm going to open up that file that's downloaded and on my system here I have to double click
on that icon put in my password and then just click through the set up steps and then we get continue
and close.
Note that we can't test Java on Chrome but we've completed the installation process so hopefully we
should be fine.
Then we need to set the Java home directory so follow the instructions here as two sets of instructions
one for Unix systems and one for Windows systems.
I'm on a Mac here so I'm going to click that first link to download the Java JDK which is the Java development
kit which is slightly different to the version of Java that we just downloaded.
Both are needed in this case.
So I would download that first option then and then you'll need to accept the license agreement and
then choose your operating system.
So if you're on OSX then you'll click that one if you're on Windows.
If you've got a 32 bit machine then you want the S-ICD 6 version and if you're on a 64 bit machine you
want the windows x 64 version.
If you're not sure whether you're on 32 bit or 64 bit Windows then just open Windows Explorer and right
click on the computer icon and then click properties then click the system tab and that will tell you
whether you're in 64 or 32 bit Windows.
If you really can't find out then go for the 32 bit version because that will work on both 32 and 64
bit systems.
Now I already have this installed so I'm not going to go through this process.
But again it is just a matter of downloading it and then clicking through the installation windows and
then you need to set the Java home directory.
So if you're on a Mac you need to do command space to open up a spotlight and then terminal to open
up a terminal window and then you use these commands here.
So export Java equals.
And then you put the directory where it's installed.
So it's probably that one or something very similar to it.
And you said that to your Java home variable.
I'm not going to do that because I've already set this up and then use that second line to set up the
Java path on Windows.
You do it slightly differently.
You right click my computer and select Properties and then on the Advanced tappy select environment
variables and then edit Java home to point to wherever you installed the JDK which will probably be
something like that.
All right.
Now it's time to generate our key.
So on a Mac go back to the terminal window.
On Windows you need to open a command prompt which you do this by clicking the start button and then
typing.
C M D.
That's C M D in the box that appears to have a command and that will get you something that looks very
similar to this but in fact it's a little bit more like that.
All right I'm sorry we're nearly there.
Then you copy this command not including the string part at the beginning and paste that into either
your terminal window or your command prompt depending on whether you're on Mac or Windows.
And then we just need to change these variables here.
So I'll just put something fairly generic in my alias name for the alias and then jumping through the
and then keeps store 9 to Keystone for the Keystone.
If you are going to call your app something like email app might call this email app store and email
app alias or something like that.
Then you press enter and it will ask you for a password.
So I put in a nice secure one there I'm just going to put in something fairly simple for now and then
you put in details about yourself
it doesn't matter too much what the answers to these questions are.
But you should be able to repeat them later on.
So keep them noted down somewhere.
If you need to then just type.
Yes it will generate the key still for you and you can enter a new password for this particular alias
if you want to.
I'm just going to leave it the same.
So I'm going to answer.
And there we go.
So that's now Stuart the key still for me
heading down here.
You can see we're now ready to submit our key to phone get built.
So let's jump back over there and we're going to need to click signing keys.
So let's go to the dropdown at the top and then it is a count
and then signing keys and we want to add a key for Android
and the title can be whatever you like.
So email app key and the alias.
I'd recommend having the same as the alias that you chose.
So my alias name then we're going to choose file to upload our Keystone file.
If you're on a Mac you can get a desktop and then click command up to get to your root directory which
is likely where the key store is saved unless you saved it somewhere specific.
On Windows it will be saved in whatever directory you had
open when you started the command tool.
So in this case it will be C-Drive slash uses a mere slash desktop slash TNP.
Go back and check in your command window if you want to know what that was.
So then going back either here.
We'll choose file again and we have to go back there again so from the desktop backup command up and
then Keystone name Pistone and then submit key and that's done and then looking down at the options
here.
We then need to unlock our key to prove that we own it.
So we can do that.
Clicking the lock there and then
putting the password in that we entered when we created the key and then submit and if you get that
right it should turn into a little unlocked padlock symbol.
So now we can go back over to our apps or just the one app and click on Android and then we can click
on the email client name and then we can on the Android version choose the key that we've just unlocked
and then it will just verify that everything's OK.
And if it is then we'll be able to download a version of the app which is signed with that particular
key and there we go.
Looking good.
So then we just download the IP K as we did before.
And you'll notice that when it's downloaded it's got the release name in here.
So this is a version of the app that we could put on the Google Play Store.
OK.
So now we have our JPK.
We're no longer doing anything specifically with phone bills.
We just want to submit our app to google play so we can search for instructions to do that.
That launch checklist is very useful because you all need to do a lot of checking and debugging to make
sure your app works properly on different devices as well as having things like icon images and launch
images ready.
But we're going to jump straight to the Google Play develop a console.
And here is where we can add a new application.
Note that if you don't have an active Google Play publisher account you'll be prompted to pay the $25
to get one.
And here you just put in the title of your app.
So e-mail up by Rob and we'll start with uploading the IP k.
Here we go.
Upload your first AP K to production.
Exciting stuff.
And then let's browse and there it is.
The AP file release version so that it will upload that and verify all of the keys and make sure that
it's a valid IP.
That can go on the on Google Play.
Yes.
And there is something I've forgotten here.
We do need to put a package name in what we can do that pretty easily.
We just go back to Bill and click Settings and then scroll down.
We can put in custom icon file here as well which would definitely be a good idea if you're releasing
a real app.
And then he is where we put the package name.
And this is usually something like chrome dots.
And then your company name or your name.
So I'm going to go for code styles and then the app name.
So email client by Rob.
That's like the reverse of the web address starts with com then has company name or your name and then
the package name should all be lowercase and shouldn't include any strange characters and I'll call
it Version 1.0 as well.
And I'll just pop something in the description your description of course should be more detailed than
that.
And then we'll save that
and it will produce a new version which we'll be able to download.
And the more we attempt the upload and with any luck it will work this time.
And there we go.
So let's now download the AP Okay.
Again same but with a one after it and we'll now go back to Google Play upload another AP k.
Choose the version that was just downloaded.
Open that.
Keep your fingers crossed.
And there we go.
So that's now uploaded our IP OK.
The rest of the process is a pretty standard form filling in process where we put in the title description
full description screenshots icons.
All of this sort of stuff which of course you will need for any app that you want to release.
But I'll leave that to you.
I hope you've been able to follow that process along and that your head is buzzing with ideas of Android
apps that you could release using HDMI all javascript and then get built in the next video then we'll
see how to do the same thing for iOS.